# Pastoral conflict on the greener grass? Unveiling a polycrisis environment in the Karamoja Cluster
Navarro, R., Saleh, L., Owino, E., Wirkus, L. (forthcoming) 
### Code developed for the grid cell analysis of environmental and conflict data in Google Earth Engine

Abstract: With one of the most severe droughts in East Africa recorded in 2022, the Karamoja Cluster has seen an unprecedented increase in violent conflicts involving pastoral livelihoods. As pastoralism is one of the main economic activities in the cross-border region, pastoral communities are highly dependent on the environment and are expected to be especially vulnerable to climate change in the near future. While transhumance is one of their traditional coping mechanisms to overcome environmental adversities, policies aiming to address multiple crises in the region have limited the mobility of these communities, leaving them exposed to the devastating consequences of climate change. Our work focuses on the period 2018 to 2023, providing a recent analysis of the conflict dynamics in the Karamoja Cluster. We propose a mixed-methods approach, incorporating informant interviews and an empirical analysis investigating the linkage between climate and pastoral conflict in the region. While our analysis shows that higher levels of vegetation are associated with lower levels of conflict, we also find that conflicts began to increase before the severe droughts of 2022 and beyond. We find that pastoralists were negatively affected by policies adopted in the cross-border region during and after the COVID-19 pandemic, leading to conflict in times prior to climate adversities, when the grass was greener.  
### Keywords: Pastoralism, Karamoja Cluster, climate-conflict nexus, Google Earth Engine, conflict, ACLED
